# Thomsontrendrevision-
# Thomsontrendrevision-

My initial idea was to do a piece on refugees in New York City. I spent a lot of time cleaning up a beast of a dataset from the State Department that breaks down where refugees live in the state of New York by nationality, which was really great practice for finding and playing with a dataset. Because I am focusing my international concentration work on Africa I then decided to focus on African refugees, but without on the ground reporting (actually speaking with people) that topic was too broad an abstract, which I think can be see in my first draft. It’s a shame because it was a good dataset that took a lot of time, but it just doesn’t fit with an achievable focus. But as I mentioned, the experience of finding and cleaning up the dataset was really helpful to me. I didn’t really use much data last semester so I feel like I’m still just trying to figure out what’s even available. To that end, I’m loving the sessions with Susan. 

Last week I further narrowed down my international concentration work to focus on Nigeria and Nigerians in New York.  So, to further focus my first assignment and actually include people, per Miguel’s suggestions, I thought it best to scrap the refugee angle and go with what I have: Nigerians in New York. This is also a case of me just being economical with my time and what I can actually do right now for deadline. I’m finding myself frustrated because there’s a huge gap between my interactive/data skill set and my reporting ambitions (which is compounded scarce time), but I chose interactive craft because it’s a whole new approach and skill set for me and I figure a challenge would be good. So by my own measurements, I'm actually somewhat pleased with myself. I see lots of room for improvement, but alas...

For the charts in my revision I took Miguel’s suggestion and cleaned them up so that the populations are in descending order, which is such an obvious suggestion I feel silly for not doing this initially. I played with the datasets in excel and then built the charts in Google Sheets. 

I also removed a small table that I had created because I felt it was unneccsary and fit better into the text. I included the table in the first place because I wanted to practice coding a table. 

I also incorporated Miguel’s suggestion to make comparisons between the local population and how it relates to what’s standard in the national population. For this I pulled Census data. 

This time around I decided to include a map. This one was tricky. My original plan was to map all the different African communities around New York but due to time and skill constraints I couldn’t figure out how to add all the layers and represent the data on the map. I did go to coaching hours last week to learn how to use Carto DB which I found helpful, but the coach had to spend a bit of time sorting out the shapefiles because there were some irregularities I'm not too clear on. The map is the Nigerian population in each community district so you can see the distribution of Nigerians across the city. It’s a simple map but was a good place for me to start as an intro to Carto DB. 

In terms of reporting, I interviewed Lookman and John last week and thought that including a bit about them and how they relate to the Nigerian community in New York City gives the story a good human grounding.  

One of the things I like about my project is the way that it zooms in as it progresses. The first chart is regions of Africa in NYC, the second is different countries and then the map gets even more focused and shows a dispersion of Nigerians across the city. I’m sure there are more interesting datasets that could be represented, but I think there’s a good basic logic to this flow. 
